# TripleTen_Data_Scientist

Compilation of all projects completed throughout TripleTen's Data Science professional training program.

Project name | Description | Libraries and Models used
------------ | ------------- | ------------- 
[Project 01: Music preferences analysis](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/14eea89e38ea2c177f1d0b5c58169c17a7fbb7f1/project1_music_preferences_analysis) | Analyse music preferences between two cities  | Library: pandas
[Project 02: Credit scoring analysis](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/14eea89e38ea2c177f1d0b5c58169c17a7fbb7f1/project2_credit_analysis) | Utilizing different metrics to determine the likelihood that a customer defaults on a loan | Library: pandas              
[Project 03: Price vehicules analysis](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project3_price_vehicule_analysis) | Studying vehicle ads to determine what factors influence vehicle price | Libraries: pandas, numpy, matplotlib
[project 04: Cell plans analysis](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project4_cell_plans_analysis) | Analyze client's consumer behaviour and establish which telcom package generates greater income | Libraries: pandas, numpy, matplotlib, math, scipy
[Project 05: Video games analysis](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project5_video_game_analysis) | Test hypothesis about users and critics of videogames to determine which projects are promising and to plan advertising campaigns. | Libraries: pandas, numpy, scipy, matplotlib
[Project 06: Taxi trip analysis](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project6_taxi_trip_analysis) | Test an hypothesis regarding taxi trips duration and weather | Libraries: pandas, numpy, scipy, matplotlib
[Project 07: Cell phone plans prediction](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project7_cell_plans_model) | Build a clasification model to help clients select their cell phone plan, with a performance of at least 0.75. | Models: decision tree, random forest and logistic regression. <br> <br> Libraries: pandas, sklearn.
[Project 08: Retention client](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project9_retention_client_analysis) | Build a prediction model for client retention with an F1 score of at least 0.59. | Models: decision tree, random forest and logistic regression. <br> <br> Libraries: pandas, matplotlib, sklearn.
[Project 09: location oil well](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project9_oil_reserves_analysis) | Validate an oil reserve volume prediction model for future OilyGiant operations, calculate the profit of a set of selected oil wells and calculate the risks and profits for each region of exploitation. | Model: random forest and linear regression. <br> <br> Libraries: pandas, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, sklearn.
[Project 10: gold production modelling](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project10_gold_production_analysis) | Model the production of mineral concentrates from a mine with a simplified metallurgical process, Design a prototype of a machine learning model for Zyfra to develop efficiency solutions for heavy industry and predict the amount of gold extracted from gold ore. | Models: linear regression, decision tree regressor, random forest regressor. <br> <br> Libraries: pandas, numpy, matplotlib, sklearn
[Project 11: Insurance modelling](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project11_insurance_analysis) | Find customers who are similar to a given customer. Predict the probability that a new client will receive an insurance benefit. Predict the number of insurance benefits that a new client may receive using a linear regression model. Protect customers' personal data without affecting the model| Models: K Nearest Neihbors (classifier). <br> <br> Libraries: numpy, pandas, seaborn, matplotlib, sklearn, math, IPython.
[Project 12: Car price prediction](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project12_car_price_prediction) | Create a model that determines market value with quality of the prediction and speed of the prediction| Models: random forest regressor, linear regression, catboost regressor, catboost classifier. <br> <br> Libraries: numpy, pandas, matplotlib, sklearn, catboost, xgboost, lightgbm, time
[Project 13: Taxi orders predictions](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project13_order_taxi_predictions) | Predict the number of taxi orders in the next hour | Models: linear regression, LGMB regressor. <br> <br> Libraries: numpy, pandas, matplotlib, sklearn, statsmodels, lightgbm.
[Project 14: movies reviews categorization](https://github.com/GuillermoJuarez/TripleTen_Data_Scientist/tree/bb7b5063e9df05ba814f5762fb650e0998c4e4ef/project14_movies_reviews) | Train models to detect negative movie reviews automatically | Models: logistic regression, LGBM classifier.  <br> <br> Libraries: numpy, re, pandas, seaborn, matplotlib, nltk, spacy, sklearn, lightgbm.
[face_identification_model](https://github.com/DanielPazminoV/yandex-practicum-projects/tree/main/face_identification_model) | Build and evaluate a neural network regression model to verify age based of photographs | Models: Convolutional Neural Network <br> <br> libraries: numpy, pandas, matplotlib, PIL, tensorflow/keras (ImageDataGenerator, ResNet50, Sequential, GlobalAveragePooling2D, Dense, Dropout, Flatten, Adam).
[telcom_cancellations](https://github.com/DanielPazminoV/yandex-practicum-projects/tree/main/telcom_cancellations) | Build a model that predicts contract cancellations. The evaluation metric and minimum acceptance criterion of the model are AUC-ROC greater than or equal to 0.75. | Models: Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, K-Nearest Neighbours, Support Vector Machine, Gradient Boosting  <br> <br> libraries: numpy, pandas, scipy, matplotlib, seaborn, datetime, dateutil, sklearn






